*Coffee scrub for oily skin(all skin types)
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon coffee grounds (preferably from freshly brewed coffee)
1 tablespoon yogurt
How To Use
Mix the coffee grounds and yogurt together and gently scrub your face for a minute or two.
Leave it on for about five minutes and then rinse.
Time Taken To Complete This Process
10-12 minutes

Tips And Precautions for Applying
Replace the yogurt with honey in this scrub if you are allergic to dairy products.

How Often Should I Use?
Do this once or twice a week.


*Oatmeal scrub for oily skin(all)

Oatmeal is soothing and cleansing for the skin as it contains anti-inflammatory compounds and saponins (6)
. Yogurt also cleanses the skin and reduces the extra sebum production. 
Along with honey, it keeps the skin moisturized and hydrated (7, 8). 
After regular use of this scrub, you will see a glow on your face, and the excess oil on the face will reduce
 to a great extent.

Ingredients
1 tablespoon oatmeal
1 tablespoon yogurt
1 tablespoon honey
How To Use
Mix all the ingredients together and apply on the face and neck areas.
Leave it on for 10 minutes.
Wet your fingers and start scrubbing in a circular motion. Scrub for 3-4 minutes.
Rinse with cool water.
Time Taken To Complete This Process
18-20 minutes

Tips And Precautions
Use rosewater instead of yogurt in case you are allergic to it

* Lemon honey scrub for oily skin(all)
The enzymes present in the lemon juice tighten the skin pores while the acids neutralize the skin’s pH. 
This reduces the excess oil production and makes your skin less oily, lighter, and brighter (13, 14).

Ingredients
1 teaspoon lemon juice
2 teaspoons brown sugar
Few drops of honey or olive oil
How To Use
1. Add sugar and honey to the lemon juice and give the mix a stir.
2. Scrub with this for 2-3 minutes and then rinse with water.

Time Taken To Complete This Process
5 minutes

Tips And Precautions
Do not mix the ingredients too much as the sugar will start to melt. After washing your face, 
use a gentle moisturizer.

How Often Should I Use?
Repeat this twice a week for best results.




*Banana, oats, milk and honey for skin nourishment(all)

A banana scrub is once again extremely good for the skin. Along with banana you have oats, honey and milk. These ingredients put together can take great care of the skin through systematic exfoliation and nourishing. Now the skin is made to appear so bright and at the same time it feels so soft and pulpy.

Ingredients

You need two tea spoons of smashed banana.
You need two tea spoons of rolled oats.
You should add to this one tea spoon of milk.
To the same you should also add one tea spoon of honey.
Procedure

First it is important that you collect a fresh ripe banana. Peel off the skin and keep the banana in a flat bowl. Then it is time that you smash the fruit well. The smashing should be done in a way that there are no lumps left. To the banana you should add the perfect amount of rolled oats. The oat here plays the role of the exfoliating agent. It is best used as a scrubber for the skin. To the mixture it is time that you add the required quality of milk and keep on mixing. After this the mixture is made better effective with the mixing of one tea spoon of honey. Honey and milk is added for the purpose of skin nourishment and the job of oats is to cause perfect skin scrubbing. Banana too is really good and nourishing for the skin. When the mixture is ready you should apply the same to all parts of the face and even on some specific parts of the body to cause the scrubbing and in the way the skin is made to appear clear and fresh.

